industry awards are they a good use of
your money and time
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
and you haven't yet check out my weekly
email where i'm sharing actionable
website and marketing tips useful
podcasts free resources goodies and much
much more each and every monday so you
can kickstart your week with a bang give
it a try over at business growth dot
email so industry awards
are they a waste of money in my opinion
yes yes they are a waste of money
so
i've been selling websites and seo
delivering projects for about 11 or more
years and in all those years never have
we ever won a piece of business
because we've got an award never has
anyone said well i really chose to work
with you because
you had these awards you had all these
awards on your shelf or showcased on
your website or never has anyone really
asked as an important question do you
guys have awards have you won any
recently so i can't say that's impacted
our sales our revenue our business
growth at all and probably about three
or four years ago a quick story is we
got cold approach i think it was a cold
email basically saying you've been
submitted for the best digital marketing
category in this sector and we thought
well this is quite cool we've never
bothered with awards before it might
boost our exposure get us some new
client wins why not so we shelled out we
have to pay to enter the award and then
miraculously
a few
couple months or so later the company
reached back and forth congratulations
you've won the category you've won the
award to claim your award pay some more
money and we'll ship you out the award
we'll do a blog article for you in some
press releases so we thought
screw it why not let's pay for it we
shelled out for the award and the
article that good stuff got the award
did we get anything from it years later
never had a client that's mentioned the
award never had someone say we chose to
work with you
because of it all we really did was lose
money and perhaps even waste time
messing about with it and at the time
where we paid out for these awards i
thought having award-winning in our
website headline would be an awesome
unique selling point turns out it's not
at all every man is dog almost every
other company website has got
award-winning or something similar or
they pay for an award or they've done
something like that and it's just really
making your business another drop in the
ocean it's not unique it's not
differentiating yourself instead for
website headlines or similar messaging i
typically recommend focusing on how you
actually improve
people's lives or their business or how
you fix a really juicy problem or pain
point that those ideal customers
typically come to you to actually fix so
it's going to resonate with them rather
than just putting generic award-winning
services because really
we've seen that so many times who really
cares all right that's enough moaning
what do i recommend that you do instead
well i recommend actually contributing
the budget you would have shipped into
awards or awards dinners or ceremonies
or just having a plaque on the shelf
into something that's going to grow your
business grow your revenue so investing
it into
marketing
or advertising so in our case at
webchoice we already
had our seo team so we're already doing
well in terms of page one organic
results on google for
web development services seo services
etc but we thought let's ramp it into a
paid ad channel so i believe we put some
into google ads and possibly some into
sponsored review sites so that actually
means that when high intent buyers are
searching for what you do they'll see
one of your ads they'll drive them to
the website with a chance of them
becoming an inbound sales lead
to
drive new revenue
and generate a new customer and is it
for me to say that awards are completely
worthless for every industry no of
course it's not there might be some
industries where awards going to the
dinners the events the galas perhaps on
industries that are more word of mouth
perhaps they are beneficial but from my
experience and for our own clients in
b2b and the odd b2c company
they haven't been very prosperous so
what do i recommend you do
instead of focusing on awards well from
my experience testimonials reviews from
clients that you've helped a much more
powerful tool
so running video testimonials or getting
video testimonial reviews or even
written reviews
where a customer basically shares why
they chose to work with you
the problem they had
how you help them fix and overcome that
problem the results that you've achieved
for them what life is like now what
business is like now and why they
recommend you a powerful video review or
written review covering that story from
start the results and ongoing the
problems you fixed why they chose you
it's much more impactful because you can
share that with more prospects you can
leverage it on your website to build
trust so you can website on socials and
other channels it's a really powerful
medium to
resonate with prospects that might have
similar problems and really need your
help so to summarize our awards worth it
well from my own experience in b2b tech
and the clients that we've helped they
haven't been a solid return on
investment at all instead i actually
recommend using that money to market or
advertise on the channels that your idle
clients actually use to make purchasing
decisions so if you're b2b that might be
podcasts seo
paid ads your website possibly linkedin
a range of different channels maybe
review sites that buyers are actually
using to make decisions on purchasing
your offerings
it's not to say that in your website in
your footer section et cetera having
accreditations or award logos perhaps
that builds a little bit of trust but
the other things we've talked about in
this episode i believe are going to help
you a lot more to get a return against
the investment and there you have it i
hope this episode has been of use to you
as always if you're tuning in on youtube
click subscribe it's very much
appreciated or if you're on the audio
podcast a quick rating if you're on
apple podcast or another channel it's
really really helpful to us and with
that said i look forward to seeing you
on the next episode cheers